- [Narrator] Spring Boot applications
are built in multiple layers
data, service and web.
In unit testing,
we test each of these layers independently.
For example, we test the web controllers
that mock out the business services.
But how do we test to ensure all these layers
work well when combined together?
How do we test other web controller responsibilities
such as input validation or exception handling?
Or how do we test integrations with external systems such
as database custom queries or using external API?
This is where integration tests come into play.
Before we start into integration tests with Spring Boot
let's define what sets an integration test
apart from a unit test.
A unit test targets a small unit of code
for example, a method or a class.
Any dependencies are removed from unit tests
like replacing the dependency with a test implementation
or a mock object created by test framework.
An integration test on the other hand
can be anything of the following,
a test that covers multiple units
because it tests the interaction between
two or more components which is spring
we refer to spring beans.
A test that covers multiple layers.
This is actually a specialization
of the first case and might cover the interaction
between a web controller and a service layer
or a business service, and a persistence layer.
A test that covers the whole path for the application.
In this test, we send the request to the application
and check that it responds correctly
and has changed the database state
according to our expectations.
A test that requires an interaction with external systems
such as database SFTP server, other API endpoints.
So whenever we are moving beyond unit testing
and start integration testing,
we should use SpringBootTest support
to create an application context
containing all the objects we need
for all the above test types.
As you progress through the course
we will explore SpringBootTest libraries.
Learn some three key real world testing scenarios
such as testing with real database,
testing service layer with caching support, web layers
and testing in micro serviced environment.